.\
.\"
.\" Define V font for inline verbatim, using C font in formats
.\" that render this, and otherwise B font.
.ie "\f[CB]x\f[]"x" \{\
. ftr V B
. ftr VI BI
. ftr VB B
. ftr VBI BI
.\}
.el \{\
. ftr V CR
. ftr VI CI
. ftr VB CB
. ftr VBI CBI
.\}
.TH "DISTROBOX-ASSEMBLE" "1" "Apr 2023" "Distrobox" "User Manual"
.hy
.SH NAME
.IP
.nf
\f[C]
distrobox assemble
distrobox-assemble
\f[R]
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
distrobox-assemble takes care of creating or destroying containers in
batches, based on a manifest file.
The manifest file by default is \f[V]./distrobox.ini\f[R], but can be
specified using the \f[V]--file\f[R] flag.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
\f[B]distrobox assemble\f[R]
.IP
.nf
\f[C]
--file/-f:      path to the distrobox manifest/ini file
--replace/-R:       replace already existing distroboxes with matching names
--dry-run/-d:       only print the container manager command generated
--verbose/-v:       show more verbosity
--version/-V:       show version
\f[R]
.fi
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
This is an example manifest file to create two containers:
.IP
.nf
\f[C]
[ubuntu]
additional_packages=git vim tmux nodejs
image=ubuntu:latest
init=false
nvidia=false
pull=true
root=false
replace=true

[arch]
additional_packages=git vim tmux nodejs
home=/tmp/home
image=archlinux:latest
init=false
init_hooks=\[dq]touch /init-normal\[dq]
nvidia=true
pre_init_hooks=\[dq]touch /pre-init\[dq]
pull=true
root=false
replace=false
volume=/tmp/test:/run/a /tmp/test:/run/b
\f[R]
.fi
.PP
\f[B]Create\f[R]
.PP
We can bring them up simply using
.IP
.nf
\f[C]
distrobox assemble create
\f[R]
.fi
.PP
If the file is called \f[V]distrobox.ini\f[R] and is in the same
directory you\[cq]re launching the command, no further arguments are
needed.
You can specify a custom path for the file using
.IP
.nf
\f[C]
distrobox assemble create -f /my/custom/path.ini
\f[R]
.fi
.PP
\f[B]Replace\f[R]
.PP
By default, \f[V]distrobox assemble\f[R] will replace a container only
if \f[V]replace=true\f[R] is specified in the manifest file.
.PP
In the example of the manifest above, the ubuntu container will always
be replaced when running \f[V]distrobox assemble create\f[R], while the
arch container will not.
.PP
To force a replace for all containers in a manifest use the
\f[V]--replace\f[R] flag
.IP
.nf
\f[C]
distrobox assemble create --replace [-f my/custom/path.ini]
\f[R]
.fi
.PP
\f[B]Remove\f[R]
.PP
We can bring down all the containers in a manifest file by simply doing
.IP
.nf
\f[C]
distrobox assemble rm
\f[R]
.fi
.PP
Or using a custom path for the ini file
.IP
.nf
\f[C]
distrobox assemble rm --file my/custom/path.ini
\f[R]
.fi
.PP
\f[B]Test\f[R]
.PP
You can always test what distrobox \f[B]would do\f[R] by using the
\f[V]--dry-run\f[R] flag.
This command will only print what commands distrobox would do without
actually running them.
