'\" t
.nh
.TH distrobox 1
.SH NAME
.PP
distrobox - Run containerized Linux distributions.

.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
\fBdistrobox\fP [\fI--help\fP | \fI-h\fP]
        [\fI--version\fP | \fI-V\fP]
        \fICOMMAND\fP [\fIARGS\fP\&...]

.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
Distrobox is a tool that allows users to run containerized Linux distributions
alongside their existing operating system. It leverages container technology
to create a seamless environment where users can install and use different
Linux distributions without the need for dual-booting or virtualization.

.SH GLOBAL OPTIONS
.PP
The following options are understood:

.PP
\fB--help, -h\fP

.PP
Show a help message.

.PP
\fB--version, -V\fP

.PP
Show version.

.SH COMMANDS
.PP
Commands for working with distrobox containers and images:

.PP
\fBdistrobox-assemble(1)\fP

.PP
Create and destroy containers based on a config file.

.PP
\fBdistrobox-create(1)\fP

.PP
Create a container.

.PP
\fBdistrobox-enter(1)\fP

.PP
Enter the container.

.PP
\fBdistrobox-ephemeral(1)\fP

.PP
Create a temporal container, destroy it when exiting the shell.

.PP
\fBdistrobox-list(1)\fP

.PP
List containers created with distrobox.

.PP
\fBdistrobox-rm(1)\fP

.PP
Delete a container created with distrobox.

.PP
\fBdistrobox-stop(1)\fP

.PP
Stop a running container created with distrobox.

.PP
\fBdistrobox-upgrade(1)\fP

.PP
Upgrade one or more running containers created with distrobox at once.

.PP
\fBdistrobox-generate-entry(1)\fP

.PP
Create an entry of a created container in the applications list.

.PP
\fBdistrobox-init(1)\fP

.PP
Entrypoint of the container (not meant to be used manually).

.PP
\fBdistrobox-export(1)\fP

.PP
Export apps and services from the container to the host.

.PP
\fBdistrobox-host-exec(1)\fP

.PP
Run commands/programs from the host, while inside of the container.
